---
layout: post
title: "moon song"
date: 2020-11-10
image: "https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2020/08/25/phoebe-bridgers-1-credit-frank-ockenfels_wide-22df25a4f7f59cbed433ba9ab23fd4a64d9ec195-s1500-c85.jpg"
tags: phoebe-bridgers music
published: false
---

> you couldn't have stuck your tongue
>
> down the throat of somebody
>
> who loves you more.
>
> so i will wait 
>
>for the next time you want me;
>
> like a dog, with a bird at your door.

there are some things that are, for better or worse, hallucinatory. there is the haziness i feel after a drawn-out cry, or the breathless vertigo of a long kiss, or the feverish anxiety of not knowing where to go next ...

in a bizarre way, phoebe bridgers' "moon song" feels like all of those things at once. maybe that is why, after months on end of not 'getting' it - feeling it wash over my body, never absorbing it - it finally cut through to me. just as things were reaching their peak - this mixture of longing and sadness and sickness that i've felt for the last several months, this song gives me some level of clarity. and, i suppose, that is her formula, after all. icy reverb, diaristic (macro/micro/???) words that sort of meander for several minutes on end, until it all strips itself back. naked and unflinching.

there's debate everywhere about whether this song is about conor oberst (who, supposedly, she has a Thing&trade; with in the post-better oblivion days) or about ry\*n \*dams. of course, i love me some speculation. but i guess the beauty of the thing is that it could be about anybody and everybody, all at once; the song deals with the all-encompassing need to be there for someone, the hope, the nausea that goes into standing by someone who doesn't want to be kept company. loving them, and then when that burns out, digging deeper and deeper within yourself to keep acting as if you do.

